README.adoc, before:

= discord-tokipona

:url-discord: https://github.com/Discord-Datamining/Discord-Datamining/blob/master/current.js
:url-tenpo: https://www.reddit.com/r/tokipona/comments/mm4ezs/hard_translations/gtwjpzz
:url-sil: https://iso639-3.sil.org/request/2021-043

A work-in-progress Powercord plugin to translate Discord into Toki Pona.

The strings to be translated are currently gathered from the strings present in Discord-Datamining’s
{url-discord}[current.js], manually.

== Usage

[literal]
$ cd "${XDG_DATA_HOME:=$HOME/.local/share}"/powercord/plugins
$ git clone https://git.mutiny.red/somasis/discord-tokipona
# -or-
$ git clone https://github.com/somasis/discord-tokipona

Then load missing plugins in Powercord, or restart it, if it's running.

Make sure the plugin is enabled in the plugin section of Powercord's settings.

Then, the translation should apply.

For now you’ll need to use either `en-GB` or `en-US` as your client’s language to have strings
apply, since this plugin overrides them.

== Dialect and notable changes from the original repository

* The language code that’s been {url-sil}[proposed to the SIL] ("tok") is used, rather than "tp-TP".
* Uses of "kulupu" for servers/guilds have been replaced with "ma".
  A "kulupu" is instead a category of channels ("tomo"), or it is a group DM.
  This reduces possible ambiguities, since group messages cannot be involved with categories.
    ** This change was made because though "kulupu" _does_ refer to "community" and "group" in lipu
       pu, "kulupu" could be a category, or a group role within a server, or refer to groups of
       people _within_ a server ("ma"), and so on. The distinction seems clearer.
       Furthermore, Discord, unlike IRC’s notion of networks (which I would call "ma"), servers
       (which I’d call "kulupu"), and channels ("tomo"), does _not_ decentralize the idea of the
       place hosting the server, instead making the largest distinguisher be the server.
       It’d perhaps be better to say a server within Discord would be "ma lon nasin/ilo Siko" rather
       than "kulupu lon ma Discord".
* "toki wile" vs. "toki kama"
    ** Mentions are "toki wile".
       Messages of desire, or desirious messages, because ultimately a mention is a message sent for
       want of the person who is being mentioned.
    ** Notifications are "toki kama".
       They are messages that bring about your awareness of themselves.
    ** In the original repository these definitions are switched around; I think "toki wile" comes
       across more obviously at first glance as being a mention, since often the person reading it
       will be the person who has been mentioned recently.
       While they _could_ apply to both, notifications appear more immediately to me as not having
       an aspect of desire to them, other than a desire to be read.
       Which would likely be because it's a mention.
* Number representation.
  In the original, no work was done pona-izing numbers, whereas this translation will use words from
  numbers 0 through 10, and any larger simply displaying numeral amounts.
  The number system used tries to be very neutral: pu extended.
  ala (0), wan (1), tu (2), tu wan (3), tu tu (4), luka (5), luka wan (6), luka tu (7),
  luka tu wan (8), luka tu tu (9), luka luka (10).
    ** Time representation is a different story.
       As of now, to keep the specific times and avoid obscuring information the client is giving
       to the user, for seconds/minutes/hours, tenpo Sekunta/Minuta/Ola is used.
       {url-tenpo}[This is a way suggested in the past by jan Lentan], which I think does well
       enough without forcing people to learn a different time system, or being unclear.
* Non-pu words are kept as minimal as possible, for dialectical neutrality, as jan Sonja's dialect
  as shown in pu is essentially the lowest common denominator for speaking.
    ** "linja" is used for referring to connections and URLs, as its most common alternate meanings
       are lines and connections.
    ** I cannot make the same guarantee for the grammar choices; I studied for a while before
       getting my hands on lipu pu, so I am probably not staying entirely true to its grammar
       and preverbs.
       If you have any patches to send in for making the dialect more pu-like (without making things
       less clear, or long-winded), I welcome them.

== Things left untranslated

* Emojis.
  I'm not sure how this would be changed but I don't really think it's worth the effort to try and
  translate _every single emoji name and shortcode_ into Toki Pona right now.
  That is a different project.
* Billing and other money related aspects of Discord Nitro.
  I don't want to be left on the hook for a misinterpretation here.
  Perhaps some time in the future, but not now.
* Powercord's settings.
  It's probably not difficult to do but I've just not bothered to look into how to do that yet.

== Known issues

Sometimes translations don't fully apply--I think this is some sort of dynamic string loading that
is going on.
I've noticed it so far with the status changing window, mostly.
Occasionally the "Active Now" panel is affected.

image:./img/status_changer.png[] image:./img/active_now.png[]

As far as I can tell, all the strings displayed in these images _should_ be showing up properly
translated; I've not been able to find any other instances of these strings in the datamined source.

Patches are accepted for fixing this as I don't have much experience writing Javascript myself.

== Contributing and acknowledgments

I am an intermediate speaker. Please submit changes to improve the translation!

Thanks to https://github.com/cominixo/tokipona-discord[jan Komi] for the original work, which
provided the basis for this project.

Commit message:

Document "kule" in translation dialect

README.adoc, after:

= discord-tokipona

:url-discord: https://github.com/Discord-Datamining/Discord-Datamining/blob/master/current.js
:url-tenpo: https://www.reddit.com/r/tokipona/comments/mm4ezs/hard_translations/gtwjpzz
:url-sil: https://iso639-3.sil.org/request/2021-043

A work-in-progress Powercord plugin to translate Discord into Toki Pona.

The strings to be translated are currently gathered from the strings present in Discord-Datamining’s
{url-discord}[current.js], manually.

== Usage

[literal]
$ cd "${XDG_DATA_HOME:=$HOME/.local/share}"/powercord/plugins
$ git clone https://git.mutiny.red/somasis/discord-tokipona
# -or-
$ git clone https://github.com/somasis/discord-tokipona

Then load missing plugins in Powercord, or restart it, if it's running.

Make sure the plugin is enabled in the plugin section of Powercord's settings.

Then, the translation should apply.

For now you’ll need to use either `en-GB` or `en-US` as your client’s language to have strings
apply, since this plugin overrides them.

== Dialect and notable changes from the original repository

* The language code that’s been {url-sil}[proposed to the SIL] ("tok") is used, rather than "tp-TP".
* Uses of "kulupu" for servers/guilds have been replaced with "ma".
  A "kulupu" is instead a category of channels ("tomo"), or it is a group DM.
  This reduces possible ambiguities, since group messages cannot be involved with categories.
    ** This change was made because though "kulupu" _does_ refer to "community" and "group" in lipu
       pu, "kulupu" could be a category, or a group role within a server, or refer to groups of
       people _within_ a server ("ma"), and so on. The distinction seems clearer.
       Furthermore, Discord, unlike IRC’s notion of networks (which I would call "ma"), servers
       (which I’d call "kulupu"), and channels ("tomo"), does _not_ decentralize the idea of the
       place hosting the server, instead making the largest distinguisher be the server.
       It’d perhaps be better to say a server within Discord would be "ma lon nasin/ilo Siko" rather
       than "kulupu lon ma Discord".
* "toki wile" vs. "toki kama"
    ** Mentions are "toki wile".
       Messages of desire, or desirious messages, because ultimately a mention is a message sent for
       want of the person who is being mentioned.
    ** Notifications are "toki kama".
       They are messages that bring about your awareness of themselves.
    ** In the original repository these definitions are switched around; I think "toki wile" comes
       across more obviously at first glance as being a mention, since often the person reading it
       will be the person who has been mentioned recently.
       While they _could_ apply to both, notifications appear more immediately to me as not having
       an aspect of desire to them, other than a desire to be read.
       Which would likely be because it's a mention.
* "kule" is used for meaning "type".
  In the original, "nasin jan" was used for roles; in this, "kule" is used.
  I think "kule" is clearer in terms of its usage as "type" than "nasin jan" is; this usage is
  also applied to terms like "file type", which is instead "kule lipu".
* Number representation.
  In the original, no work was done pona-izing numbers, whereas this translation will use words from
  numbers 0 through 10, and any larger simply displaying numeral amounts.
  The number system used tries to be very neutral: pu extended.
  ala (0), wan (1), tu (2), tu wan (3), tu tu (4), luka (5), luka wan (6), luka tu (7),
  luka tu wan (8), luka tu tu (9), luka luka (10).
    ** Time representation is a different story.
       As of now, to keep the specific times and avoid obscuring information the client is giving
       to the user, for seconds/minutes/hours, tenpo Sekunta/Minuta/Ola is used.
       {url-tenpo}[This is a way suggested in the past by jan Lentan], which I think does well
       enough without forcing people to learn a different time system, or being unclear.
* Non-pu words are kept as minimal as possible, for dialectical neutrality, as jan Sonja's dialect
  as shown in pu is essentially the lowest common denominator for speaking.
    ** "linja" is used for referring to connections and URLs, as its most common alternate meanings
       are lines and connections.
    ** I cannot make the same guarantee for the grammar choices; I studied for a while before
       getting my hands on lipu pu, so I am probably not staying entirely true to its grammar
       and preverbs.
       If you have any patches to send in for making the dialect more pu-like (without making things
       less clear, or long-winded), I welcome them.

== Things left untranslated

* Emojis.
  I'm not sure how this would be changed but I don't really think it's worth the effort to try and
  translate _every single emoji name and shortcode_ into Toki Pona right now.
  That is a different project.
* Billing and other money related aspects of Discord Nitro.
  I don't want to be left on the hook for a misinterpretation here.
  Perhaps some time in the future, but not now.
* Powercord's settings.
  It's probably not difficult to do but I've just not bothered to look into how to do that yet.

== Known issues

Sometimes translations don't fully apply--I think this is some sort of dynamic string loading that
is going on.
I've noticed it so far with the status changing window, mostly.
Occasionally the "Active Now" panel is affected.

image:./img/status_changer.png[] image:./img/active_now.png[]

As far as I can tell, all the strings displayed in these images _should_ be showing up properly
translated; I've not been able to find any other instances of these strings in the datamined source.

Patches are accepted for fixing this as I don't have much experience writing Javascript myself.

== Contributing and acknowledgments

I am an intermediate speaker. Please submit changes to improve the translation!

Thanks to https://github.com/cominixo/tokipona-discord[jan Komi] for the original work, which
provided the basis for this project.
